---
date: 2022-11-24
description: "A podcast with Basecamp's lead Android developer, Hotwire-powered open source projects, and tutorials on modal forms, \"like\" counts, slow forms, and more."
edition: "#6"
image: images/hotwire/6.png
layout: hotwire
permalink: hotwire/edition-6/
title: "⚡️ Hotwire dev newsletter - Edition #6"

---

Welcome back to the ⚡️ Hotwire dev newsletter! This month we have a podcast with Basecamp's lead Android developer, a few Hotwire-powered open source projects, and tons of tutorials. In Turbo news, [v7.1.0 saw three separate release candidates](https://github.com/hotwired/turbo/releases/tag/v7.1.0-rc.1), which now replicates all of `rails-ujs` functionality. This includes confirmation dialogs, disabling forms on submit, and more.

I'm also excited to announce that [railsdevs.com](https://railsdevs.com) is officially live! A "reverse job board" for Rails devs that strives to give power back to the independent developer. Instead of companies posting their jobs, developers post their profiles. The site is powered by Rails and [open source](https://github.com/joemasilotti/railsdevs.com/) – I'd love if you could add your developer profile or contribute some code.

{% include sponsor_content.html
  url="mailto:john@startup.dev"
  image="startup.dev.png"
  title="Platform Rails Engineers"
  description="Startup.Dev offers expert help with Ruby to startups. We're hiring Senior+ Ruby engineers who enjoy challenges like: high-traffic APIs, multi-consumer system design, and job queue optimization and performance. Full time with benefits or contract available. Location: remote! (US timezones)"
%}

## 🎙📹 Podcasts and videos

{% include link.html
  title="Turbo Native for Android and Hotwire with Jay Ohms"
  url="https://fragmentedpodcast.com/episodes/220/"
  author="Donn Felker"
  twitter="donnfelker"
  body="Jay Ohms, the lead Android dev at Basecamp, gives an overview of how Turbo Native works on Android. There’s also a great teaser of what Hotwire’s Strada will be when it’s released around the 37 minute mark."
%}

{% include link.html
  title="Turbo Native Blog"
  url="https://youtube.com/playlist?list=PLA_JgdjJGBdX_J8mGTaTz9G65-rDs52a2"
	author="Jonathan Bennett"
  body="A 6-part video series on building hybrid apps on iOS with Turbo Native. Jonathan covers setting the iOS and Rails apps, authentication, the JavaScript Bridge, and more."
%}

## 🐙 Open source

{% include link.html
  title="Hotwire::Livereload"
  url="https://github.com/kirillplatonov/hotwire-livereload"
	author="Kirill Platonov"
  twitter="kirplatonov"
  body="Automatically reload the page when “view” files are modified, like HTML, CSS, helpers, and JavaScript. Can also be configured to listen to any path, like view components."
%}

{% include link.html
  title="Bridgtown Fundraising"
  url="https://fundraising.bridgetownrb.com/"
	author="Jared White"
  twitter="jaredcwhite"
  body="Bridgetown, a Webpack-aware, Ruby-powered static site generator, is looking for donations and sponsors to help fund future development."
%}

{% include link.html
  title="Avo admin framework"
  url="https://avohq.io/"
	author="Adrian Marin"
  twitter="adrianthedev"
  body="Configuration-based, no-maintenance, extendable Ruby on Rails admin framework powered by Hotwire."
%}

## 🎓 Tutorials

{% include link.html
  title="GitHub Issue-style File Uploader Using Stimulus and Active"
  url="https://hybrd.co/posts/github-issue-style-file-uploader-using-stimulus-and-active-storage"
	author="Jeremy Smith"
  twitter="jeremysmithco"
  body="A no nonsense blog post on adding drag-and-drop file uploads to a text field. Jeremy starts with the solution, a beefy Stimulus controller, then dives into how it works and how to wire it up to your view."
%}

{% include link.html
  title="Handling modal forms with Rails, Tailwind CSS, and Hotwire"
  url="https://bramjetten.dev/articles/search-modal-with-hotwire-part-1"
	author="Bram Jetten"
  twitter="BramJetten"
  body="Not just modals, but forms inside of said modals. Extends the modal controller from TailwindCSS Stimulus Components to hook into success and failure callbacks to clear errors."
%}

{% include link.html
  title="Turbo Training"
  url="https://turbo-showcase.herokuapp.com/training"
	author="Alessandro Rodi"
  twitter="coorasse"
  body="Practice your Turbo skills with this Turbo training page. Five exercises that get progressively more difficult, ranging from replacing the content of a Turbo Frame to submitting a form without refreshing the page."
%}

{% include link.html
  title="Increment likes count without any page refreshes"
  url="https://blog.corsego.com/hotwire-turbo-button-to-like-record"
	author="Yaroslav Shmarov"
  twitter="yarotheslav"
  body="A compact tutorial on on implementing Twitter or Facebook “likes” with Turbo. The count is persisted in the database and Turbo powers the reloading of the partial."
%}

{% include link.html
  title="Enriching slow Rails forms with Turbo Frames"
  url="https://paagman.dev/enriching-slow-rails-forms-with-turbo-frames/"
	author="Dennis Paagman"
  twitter="djfpaagman"
  body="A Turbo-powered approach to showing a “loading” screen when submitting a form that takes a while to load. Dennis also touches on disabling the form with a Stimulus controller (if you aren’t using the latest RC of Turbo)."
%}

## 👩‍💻👨‍💻 Jobs

{% include job.html
  url="https://bottle.com"
  title="Bottle is hiring fulltime Rails developers"
  description="Build with Rails, Vue, and Tailwind. Bottle unlocks memberships for local food businesses by combining memberships, e‑commerce, texting, and automation in one place. work@bottle.com"
%}

{% include job.html
  url="https://boards.greenhouse.io/bearer/jobs/4759539003"
  title="Ruby on Rails Developer at Bearer"
  description="Bearer is a remote-first startup with a simple mission: help the industry automate data security & privacy to build better software. As a Ruby on Rails Developer, you'd be working in a fast-paced and challenging environment, with a (small) team that's experienced, supportive and friendly."
%}

{% include job.html
  url="mailto:kaleb@rails.quest"
  title="Hire Kaleb Lape"
  description="Hooked on coding with Windows 95 and QBasic, I found my way to Ruby on Rails in 2015 and never looked back. Now I build software, consult, and refine raw talent at Rails Quest."
%}

{% include job.html
  url="mailto:fetijashari@gmail.com"
  title="Hire Feti Jashari"
  description="Rails Developer specializing in SaaS Apps, ERPs, CRMs, APIs including Payments, Analytics etc. Expert on Jumpstart Rails Hatchbox."
%}

## And finally...

Remember that time that DHH said he was [enjoying this newsletter](https://twitter.com/dhh/status/1453759777163694090?s=20)? 🤯

{% include signature.html %}

{% include hotwire-ps.html %}
