---
date: 2022-11-26
description: "Four Black Friday deals I couldn't help but share."
edition: "Black Friday 2021"
image: images/hotwire/black-friday.png
layout: hotwire
permalink: hotwire/black-friday-2021/
title: "⚡️ Hotwire dev newsletter - Black Friday 2021 edition"

---

Welcome to a special Black Friday edition of the ⚡️ Hotwire dev newsletter! I know the newsletter is usually once a month, but there are a few Hotwire and Rails Black Friday deals I couldn't help but share. If you're looking to level up your Rails skills or kickstart your next product then look no further than these discounts.

## 🏷 Black Friday 2021 deals

{% include link.html
  title="Learn Hotwire by Building a Forum"
  url="https://store.afomera.dev/learn-hotwire?coupon=BFCM2021"
	author="Andrea Fomera"
  twitter="afomera"
  body="What better way to learn a framework than to build something _real_? This course from Andrea covers authentication, discussions, notifications, and even real-time feedback. It's discounted 15% this Black Friday."
%}

{% include link.html
  title="StimulusReflex Patterns"
  url="https://julianrubisch.gumroad.com/l/JRSRP"
  author="Julian Rubisch"
  twitter="julian_rubisch"
  body="Want to take your StimulusReflex and CableReady skills to the next level? Lock in Early Access pricing to Julian's course and learn forms, streams, authorization, Optimistic UIs, and more. It's discounted 20% this Black Friday."
%}

{% include link.html
  title="JumpStart Pro and GoRails"
  url="https://gorails.com/blog/black-friday-2021-deals-on-gorails-courses-and-jumpstart-pro"
  author="Chris Oliver"
  twitter="excid3"
  body="Kick start your next product with Jumpstart Pro – Rails and iOS templates to help you build incredibly fast. Or, level up your Rails knowledge with 350+ GoRails video lessons, from authentication to Hotwire and everything in between. $50+ off Jumpstart Pro and 36% off GoRails annual plans this Black Friday."
%}

{% include link.html
  title="Full Stack Rails Bundle"
  url="https://learnetto.com/users/hrishio/courses/full-stack-rails"
  author="Hrishi Mittal"
  twitter="hrishio"
  body="Pre-order this video course on how to build a marketplace in Rails 7 with subscriptions, eCommerce, social networking, and blogging. Also, a free copy of The Complete Guide to Rails Testing eBook! It's discounted a whopping 60% off this Black Friday."
%}

{% include signature.html %}

{% include hotwire-ps.html %}
