---
date: 2021-04-15
description: "This month I reveal how I test UIAlertController and UINavigationController. Also, I reveal a secret project I'm working on!"
edition: V
image: https://www.mugshotbot.com/m?theme=two_up&mode=light&color=green&pattern=diagonal_lines&image=d33ff6b7&url=https://masilotti.com/newsletter/edition-v/
layout: newsletter
permalink: newsletter/edition-v/
title: The Masilotti Monthly, edition V

---

In this month’s newsletter, I’m revealing a behind-the-scenes look at how I test code that interacts with `UIAlertController` and `UINavigationController`. Also, I’m working on a secret project that I would love your input on!

## How to test code that uses `UINavigationController`

Testing code that uses the navigation stack starts off simple but can quickly devolve into bad practices like ticking the run loop, adding unneeded expectations, or (worse) throwing in `sleep` statements.

Developers reach for these techniques because pushing a view controller onto a navigation stack _isn’t instantaneous_. There’s a small delay between calling `pushViewController(_:,animated:)` and when `viewControllers` is set.

```swift
let navigationController = UINavigationController()

// The first controller is always pushed without animation.
navigationController.push(UIViewController(), animated: true)
XCTAssertEqual(navigationController.viewControllers.count, 1)

// Fails! Subsequent controllers take a half-second or so to animate.
navigationController.push(UIViewController(), animated: true)
XCTAssertEqual(navigationController.viewControllers.count, 2)
```

To remedy this I add the following code snippet to almost every iOS project I work on. It’s a tiny subclass of `UINavigationController` that lets us “spy” on what methods were called.

```swift
class NavigationControllerSpy: UINavigationController {
    private(set) var pushedViewControllers = [UIViewController]()

    override func pushViewController(_ viewController: UIViewController, animated: Bool) {
        pushedViewControllers.append(viewController)
        super.pushViewController(viewController, animated: animated)
    }
}
```

Create an instance of this spy and inject it into your subject under test. Instead of reaching for `viewControllers`, we use our new property: `pushedViewControllers`. This keeps track of everything that was pushed — synchronously and without delay. It also calls `super`, so the `UINavigationController` behavior is preserved.

This can also be extended to work with `present(_:,animated:,completion:)` following the same spying pattern!

## How to test code that uses `UIAlertController`

Up until recently, I’ve [recommended wrapping `UIAlertController`]({% post_url 2018-08-07-testing-uialertcontroller %}) and testing _that_. But I’ve found a better solution, and one that can test existing code without any additional changes.

It’s pretty straightforward to test the title, message, and action names of `UIAlertController`. Everything is exposed publicly. But things get tricky when we want to assert what happens when we tap on a button.

`UIAlertAction` has no `handler` property. But lucky for us we can find it – if we know where to look. Add this snippet to your test suite and you can start asserting what happens when you tap an alert’s action – with no changes to your application code needed.

```swift
extension UIAlertController {
    typealias AlertHandler = @convention(block) (UIAlertAction) -> Void

    func tapButton(titled title: String) {
        guard
            let action = actions.first(where: { $0.title == title }),
            let block = action.value(forKey: "handler")
        else { return }

        let handler = unsafeBitCast(block as AnyObject, to: AlertHandler.self)
        handler(action)
    }
}
```

## Hybrid iOS apps with Turbo

I officially passed the halfway mark in my 6-part series on [building hybrid iOS apps with Turbo]({% link turbo-ios.md %}). If you already have a mobile-friendly Ruby on Rails website, Turbo provides a great foundation to build a feature-complete iOS app in a fraction of the time of a fully native app. (Feel free to catch up on [the Turbo framework]({% post_url turbo-ios/2021-02-18-the-turbo-framework %}) and [URL routing]({% post_url turbo-ios/2021-02-26-url-routing %}) first.)

Part 3 in the series touches on [forms and basic authentication]({% post_url turbo-ios/2021-03-19-forms-and-basic-authentication %}). It covers how to share cookies between your web views and sign in via your existing web-based code.

Part 4 dives deep into [the JavaScript bridge]({% post_url turbo-ios/2021-04-02-the-javascript-bridge %}). This is used to pass messages between the client and server in between request cycles. There’s an example on how to add a native button to specific screens and dynamically change the design and behavior – all via your server’s code!

Stay tuned for part 5 and 6, which will touch on native screens (including native sign in) and architecture best practices with the coordinator pattern.

## XCTest cheat sheet

I’m working on a secret project and would love your input.

I’m compiling a cheat sheet of XCTest techniques and best practices. It’s for beginners and experts alike and is going to include lots of little tips and tricks I’ve picked up over the years.

So far, it covers basic assertions, different approaches to waiting for expectations, how to test specific UIKit classes, and how to test networking. The code snippets at the beginning of this newsletter are great examples.

**So, my faithful subscriber, what else would you like to see included?** Is there some XCTest syntax you always forget and have to Google? Or somewhere that you always get caught up when testing your apps?

Let me know and I’ll make sure to include it in the first release! You can [email me](mailto:joe@masilotti.com) or [reach out on Twitter](https://twitter.com/joemasilotti).
